hey baby
it's been a triumphant return this
summer for Shania Twain performing and
sold-out arenas across North America
including here in Vancouver but the day
before that concert at an elementary
school in the nearby city of Surrey a
different side of the superstar well I'm
almost 50 years old so London a long
long long time she was here to announce
a five-year commitment from her
foundation Shania kids hands which helps
children she describes as disadvantaged
a cause which fulfills a promise she
made to herself a long time ago if I
ever make I have this determination it
just got me boiling with determination I
ever get out of this if I ever make it
I'm gonna go around and pick out all the
families that I know are starving and
I'm gonna fill up their freezer for the
whole winter growing up poor is by now
well-known part of the Shania Twain
story from Timmins Ontario to the top of
the music world that donum faces name
beginning in the late 90s her songs were
everywhere there were Grammy Awards sold
out tours but talking to her in that
Surrey school though you could hear that
different side of Shania a woman who
says after all these years she's still
not comfortable in the spotlight
you know I mean I've got a lot of
insecurities that just you know I've had
from whatever you know from my childhood
they're still they're still the same
person although securities is still
there it's not like success you erased
my insecurities you know I still am Who
I am at the core you know what Fame and
money does not fix everything that's for
sure I've really learned to work around
my shyness and less apprehensive with
experience I learned you either have to
be able to step forward and do this
or just don't do it
so many of us dream of that moment of
being on stage and looking out at you
know 15 18 thousand people what's that
like particularly for you struggling
with self-esteem well outside of that
initial entrance to the stage which I
always feel the jitters right there once
I'm there I'm fine
you know I'm just with everybody at that
point rolling it together and it's I
don't feel that anxiety once I'm with
everybody if I were in the mind set that
I was isolated and under the spotlight
it would freak me out completely I
wouldn't be able to do it everybody in
the audience is my focus and that's that
just neutralizes it for some reason but
over the last few years her struggle to
get on stage got a lot tougher
her husband Mont Lange who also produced
and co-wrote her biggest songs left her
for her best friend in 2007
devastated she disappeared from the
spotlight lost her voice and wondered if
she'd ever perform again but now Shanna
is back her first tour in more than a
decade reenergized remarried to the
former husband of her former best friend
her professional and personal life seems
recharged just in time for a milestone
birthday goodies significant for
everyone maybe I'm feeling that you know
that the social influence of that number
maybe it's not a significant I think it
is I lied to myself when I turned 50 and
I pretended it didn't matter but it
really mattered I really I think you're
being honest about it I I'm embracing it
that cat sounds a little trite actually
cuz that's everybody says that don't
okay but I really am I really feel like
I'm I've earned something that I didn't
have even five years ago I've worked
very hard to get my voice back I've I've
worked very hard on my self-confidence
I've worked hard at you know relaxing
and enjoying my life so whether it's
ironic that the timing is that I'm
coming fifty and I'm also in a very good
place know mentally and emotionally and
physically I don't know but it is all
coming together at this point
some of us try to cope with 50 by buying
a sports car when you're a you know
country or the recording artist a
superstar like you are how do you is
there something you can buy to help you
cope with 50 how do you how do you help
deal with the big number I never thought
of anything I could buy but you know the
year my 50th year it's just it's all
about it's not it's not a sample today
by the way it's about the whole year I'm
making it a whole year event for myself
it's everything I can do for myself in
that year I'm really going to focus more
on on being good to myself I love horses
I want to get horses back into my daily
life I mean I love my son and I you know
I can have it all by organizing my
calendar sort of the luxury of being
successful I love being a successful
professional and being mom and not not
not having to farm it off to somebody
else that's wonderful that's like having
it all
having it all includes not just touring
across Canada and the United States but
putting the finishing touches on her
first studio album in 13 years on her
own without her ex-husband we've come
it will sound very different I think
everybody might want you know anybody
that's a fan of my music might want to
be prepared for that it is very
different it's still me it's still my
voice still my emotion my expression but
lyrically
and melodically it's more there's
there's more emotion in there you know
the songs that I've recorded up to now
the hits up to now I focused more on the
fun side of my thinking and the
optimistic side of my thinking the new
music is still it's more about us is it
more the optimism of a survivor that's
the way I would summarize it